Prioritize the non-student versions (#1422)
pyansys/pymapdl: doc/source/getting_started/running_mapdl.rst

Should this fail to launch or hang while launching, pass
``verbose_mapdl=True`` when using ``launch_mapdl``.  This will print
the output of MAPDL within Python and can be used to debug why MAPDL

> isn't launching.  Output is limited on Windows due to the way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
isn't launching. On Windows, output is limited due to the way
```

> MAPDL launches on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MAPDL launches.
```

> Default executable Location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default Executable Location
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first time that you run PyMAPDL, it detects the

> available ANSYS installations, normally under:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available ANSYS installations.

On Windows, Ansys installations are normally under:
```

.. code:: text

    C:/Program Files/ANSYS Inc/vXXX

> on Windows, and:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Linux, Ansys installations are normally under:
```

.. code:: text

    /usr/ansys_inc/vXXX

> on Linux.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If PyMAPDL successfully finds a valid ANSYS installation, it caches its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If PyMAPDL finds a valid ANSYS installation, it caches its
```

path in the configuration file, ``config.txt``, whose path is shown in the
following code:

.. code:: python

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core.launcher import CONFIG_FILE
    >>> print(CONFIG_FILE)
    'C:\\Users\\user\\AppData\\Local\\ansys_mapdl_core\\ansys_mapdl_core\\config.txt'

In certain cases, this configuration might become obsolete. For example, when a new

> Ansys version is installed, and the old one is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansys version is installed and an earlier installation is removed.
```

> To update this configuration file with the latest path, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update this configuration file with the latest path, use:
```

.. code:: python

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core import save_ansys_path
    >>> save_ansys_path(r"C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ansys222.exe")
    'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\v222\\ansys\\bin\\winx64\\ansys222.exe'

> If you want to check which Ansys installations PyMAPDL has detected, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to check which Ansys installations PyMAPDL has detected, use:
```

.. code:: python

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core.launcher import _get_available_base_ansys
    >>> _get_available_base_ansys()
    {222: 'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\v222',
    212: 'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\v212',
    -222: 'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\ANSYS Student\\v222'}

Student versions are provided as negative versions because the Python dictionary
does not accept two equal keys. The result of the ``_get_available_base_ansys()`` method

> listing higher versions first and student versions last.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lists higher versions first and student versions last.
```

.. warning::

>     You should not have the same Ansys product version and student version. For more information, see `Debug Launch Issues`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You should not have the same Ansys product version and student version installed. For more
    information, see `Debug Launch Issues`_.
```

> isn't launching.  Output will be limited on Windows due to the way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
isn't launching.  Output is limited on Windows due to the way
```

Reviewer: @germa89 Although Vale isn't implemented here, I'm manually editing according to Google developer style guides. They recommend avoiding future tense and using present tense instead.

MAPDL launches on Windows.

Default executable Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The first time you run PyMAPDL it will detect the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time that you run PyMAPDL, it detects the
```

available ANSYS installations, normally under:

.. code:: text

    C:/Program Files/ANSYS Inc/vXXX

> in windows, and:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on Windows, and:
```

.. code:: text

    /usr/ansys_inc/vXXX

on Linux.

> If PyMAPDL successfully find a valid ANSYS installation, it will cache its
> path in the configuration file ``config.txt`` which can be found by following
> the next code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If PyMAPDL successfully finds a valid ANSYS installation, it caches its
path in the configuration file, ``config.txt``, whose path is shown in the
following code:
```

.. code:: python

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core.launcher import CONFIG_FILE
    >>> print(CONFIG_FILE)
    'C:\\Users\\user\\AppData\\Local\\ansys_mapdl_core\\ansys_mapdl_core\\config.txt'

In certain cases, this configuration might become obsolete. For example, when a new

> ANSYS version is installed, and the old one is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansys version is installed, and the old one is removed.
```

> To update this configuration file with the latest path you can the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update this configuration file with the latest path, do the following:
```

.. code:: python

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core import save_ansys_path
    >>> save_ansys_path(r"C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ansys222.exe")
    'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\v222\\ansys\\bin\\winx64\\ansys222.exe'

> If you want to check which ANSYS installations is PyMAPDL detecting you can issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to check which Ansys installations PyMAPDL has detected, run:
```

.. code:: python

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core.launcher import _get_available_base_ansys
    >>> _get_available_base_ansys()
    {222: 'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\v222',
    212: 'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\v212',
    -222: 'C:\\Program Files\\ANSYS Inc\\ANSYS Student\\v222'}

> It should be noticed that the student versions are provided as negative version (Python ``dict``
> does not accept two equal keys.
> The result of ``_get_available_base_ansys()`` is in order, higher version first and student versions
> at last.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Student versions are provided as negative versions because the Python dictionary
does not accept two equal keys. The result of the ``_get_available_base_ansys()`` method
listing higher versions first and student versions last.
```

.. warning::

>     It is not recommended to have installed Ansys product and Ansys student products with the same version.
>     See `Debug Launch Issues`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You should not the same Ansys product version and student version. For more information, see
    `Debug Launch Issues`_.
```

Author: ```suggestion
    You should not have the same Ansys product version and student version. For more information, see `Debug Launch Issues`_.
```

    /usr/ansys_inc/v211/ansys/bin/ansys211

You should start MAPDL in a temporary working directory because MAPDL creates
several temporary files.

> You can specify a directory by launching MAPDL from the temporary directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can specify a directory by launching MAPDL from the temporary directory:
```

.. code:: pwsh

    mkdir temporary_directory
    cd temporary_directory
     & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'

Or, you can specify the directory using the ``-dir`` flag:

.. code:: pwsh

    mkdir temporary_directory
    & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe' -dir "C:\ansys_job\mytest1"

> If this command doesn't launch, look at the command output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this command doesn't launch MAPDL, look at the command output:
```

.. code:: pwsh

    (base) PS C:\Users\user\temp> & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'
    *** ERROR ***
    Another Ansys job with the same job name (file) is already running in this
    directory or the file.lock file has not been deleted from an abnormally

>     terminated Ansys run.  To disable this check, set the ANSYS_LOCK environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    terminated Ansys run. To disable this check, set the ANSYS_LOCK environment
```

    variable to OFF.

There are many issues that can cause Ansys not to launch, including:

- License server setup
- Running behind a VPN
- Missing dependencies

> - Conflicts with Student Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Conflicts with a student version
```

Licensing Issues
----------------

> Incorrect license server configuration can make ANSYS not being able to get a valid license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incorrect license server configuration can prevent Ansys from being able to get a valid license.
```

> Note that you should probably startup MAPDL in a temporary working
> directory as MAPDL creates a several temporary files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should start MAPDL in a temporary working directory because MAPDL creates
several temporary files.
```

> You can specify a directory by either launching MAPDL from the temporary directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a directory by launching MAPDL from the temporary directory:
```

.. code:: pwsh

    mkdir temporary_directory
    cd temporary_directory
     & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'

> Or specifying the ``-dir`` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, you can specify the diectory using the ``-dir`` flag:
```

.. code:: pwsh

    mkdir temporary_directory
    & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe' -dir "C:\ansys_job\mytest1"

> If this command doesn't launch, please pay attention to the command output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this command doesn't launch, look at the command output:
```

.. code:: pwsh

    (base) PS C:\Users\user\temp> & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'
    *** ERROR ***

>     Another ANSYS job with the same job name (file) is already running in this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Another Ansys job with the same job name (file) is already running in this
```

>     directory or the file.lock file has not been deleted from an abnormally
>     terminated ANSYS run.  To disable this check, set the ANSYS_LOCK environment
>     variable to OFF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    directory or the ``file.lock`` file has not been deleted from an abnormally
    terminated Ansys run.  To disable this check, set the ``ANSYS_LOCK`` environment
    variable to ``OFF``.
```

> There is a variety of issues that can make ANSYS not launching, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many issues that can cause Ansys not to launch, including:
```

> - License server setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- License server setup
```

Reviewer: No period in bulleted list item unless there is a verb.

  Incorrect license server configuration can make ANSYS not able to get a valid license.

>   In those cases, you might see output **similar** to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Incorrect configuration of the license server can make it impossible for Ansys to get a valid license.
  In such cases, you might see output similar to what follows:
```

  .. code:: pwsh

    (base) PS C:\Users\user\temp> & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'
   
    ANSYS LICENSE MANAGER ERROR:

>     Maximum licensed number of demo users already reached.

Reviewer: This should be a a complete sentence: Maximum licensed number of demo users has already been reached.

Author: That is the output of MAPDL. We cannot change it :(

    ANSYS LICENSE MANAGER ERROR:

    Request name mech_2 does not exist in the licensing pool.
    No such feature exists.
    Feature:       mech_2
    License path:  C:\Users\user\AppData\Local\Temp\\cb0400ba-6edb-4bb9-a333-41e7318c007d;
    FlexNet Licensing error:-5,357

- Running behind a VPN.
  If your device is inside a virtual private network (VPN), ANSYS might have some problems to correctly
  resolve the IP of the license server. Please do check that the hostname or IP of the license server

>   is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Running inside a VPN
  If your device is running inside a virtual private network (VPN), Ansys might have trouble correctly
  resolving the IP address of the license server. Check that the hostname or IP address of the license server
  is correct.
```

>   In Windows, you can find the license configuration file which points to the license server in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  On Windows, you can find the license configuration file which points to the license server in:
```

  .. code:: text

    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\Shared Files\Licensing\ansyslmd.ini

- Incorrect environment variables.
  The license server can be also specified using the environment variable ``ANSYSLMD_LICENSE_FILE``.

>   You can check the value of this environment variable by issuing on Windows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Incorrect environment variables
  The license server can also be specified using the ``ANSYSLMD_LICENSE_FILE``  environment variable.
  You can check the value of this environment variable on Windows with this code:
```

  .. code:: pwsh
    
    $env:ANSYSLMD_LICENSE_FILE
    1055@1.1.1.1

>   And on linux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  On Linux, you can check the value of this environment variable with this code:
```

  .. code:: bash

    printenv | grep ANSYSLMD_LICENSE_FILE

> - Conflicts with Student Version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Conflicts with Student Version
```

  Although you can install Ansys together with any other Ansys products or versions, on Windows it is **highly**
  recommended to not install an ANSYS Product Student version together with its non-student version.
  For example, *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2* and *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 Student version* installed together might cause
  some license conflicts due to overwriting of the environment variables.
  Having different versions, for example *Ansys MAPDL 2021R1* and *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 Student version* is

>   completely fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Although you can install Ansys together with other Ansys products or versions, on Windows, you should
  not install a Student version of an Ansys product together with its non-student version.  For example, installing
  both Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 and Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 Student version might cause some license conflicts due to
  overwriting of the environment variables.  Having different versions, such as Ansys MAPDL 2021 R1 and Ansys
  MAPDL 2022 R2 Student version, is fine.
```

  If you experience those issues, we recommend you to edit the environment variables ``ANSYSXXX_DIR``, ``AWP_ROOTXXX``,
  and ``CADOE_LIBDIRXXX`` where ``XXX`` is the MAPDL numeric version (i.e. ``222`` for *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2*)

>   to remove any reference to the student version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you experience issues, you should edit these environment variables to remove
  any reference to the student version: ``ANSYSXXX_DIR``, ``AWP_ROOTXXX``,
  and ``CADOE_LIBDIRXXX`.  The three-digit MAPDL numeric version appears
  where ``XXX`` is shown. For example, ``222`` appears for Ansys MAPDL 2022 R2. 
```

    PS [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('AWP_ROOT222','C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222',[System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::User)  # This will change the env var permanently.
    PS echo $env:AWP_ROOT222
    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222

    PS echo $env:ANSYS222_DIR
    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\ANSYS Student\v222\ANSYS
    PS [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('ANSYS222_DIR','C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ANSYS',[System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::User)
    PS echo $env:ANSYS222_DIR
    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ANSYS

    PS echo $env:CADOE_LIBDIR222
    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\ANSYS Student\v222\CommonFiles\Language\en-us
    PS [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('CADOE_LIBDIR222','C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\CommonFiles\Language\en-us',[System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::User)
    PS echo $env:CADOE_LIBDIR222
    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\CommonFiles\Language\en-us

- Missing dependencies.
  Normally missing dependencies will be shown by Python by raising an error.
  For example, if the library `Numpy <https://numpy.org/>`_ is missing, Python

>   will show the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Missing dependencies
  When dependencies are missing, Python typically raisiesan error.
  For example, if the `numpy <https://numpy.org/>`_ package is missing, Python
  raises this error:
```

        2 import os
        3
    ----> 4 from matplotlib.colors import ListedColormap
        5 import numpy as np
        6

    C:\ProgramData\Miniconda3\envs\pymapdl_0\lib\site-packages\matplotlib\__init__.py in <module>
        102 import warnings
        103
    --> 104 import numpy
        105 from packaging.version import parse as parse_version
        106

    ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'numpy'

  In this cases, the best option is to reinstall the library using:

  .. code:: bash

    python -m pip install ansys-mapdl-core

Licensing Issues
----------------

PADT generally has a great blog regarding ANSYS issues, and licensing is always a common issue 
(for example `Changes to Licensing at ANSYS 2020R1 <https://www.padtinc.com/blog/15271-2/>`_).  
Should you be responsible for maintaining Ansys licensing or have a personal install of Ansys,
please check the online Ansys licensing documentation at 
`Installation and Licensing <https://ansyshelp.ansys.com/account/secured?returnurl=/Views/Secured/prod_page.html?pn=Installation%20and%20Licensing&pid=InstallationAndLicensing&lang=en>`_.

> For an in-depth explanation, please see the :download:`ANSYS Licensing Guide <ANSYS_Inc._Licensing_Guide.pdf>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more comprehensive information, download the :download:`ANSYS Licensing Guide <ANSYS_Inc._Licensing_Guide.pdf>`.
```

Note that you should probably startup MAPDL in a temporary working
directory as MAPDL creates a several temporary files.
You can specify a directory by either launching MAPDL from the temporary directory:

.. code:: pwsh

    mkdir temporary_directory
    cd temporary_directory
     & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'

> Or specifying the ``-dir`` flag:

Author: ```suggestion
Or, you can specify the directory using the ``-dir`` flag:
```

.. code:: pwsh

    mkdir temporary_directory
    & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe' -dir "C:\ansys_job\mytest1"

If this command doesn't launch, please pay attention to the command output:

.. code:: pwsh

    (base) PS C:\Users\user\temp> & 'C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\v222\ansys\bin\winx64\ANSYS222.exe'
    *** ERROR ***
    Another ANSYS job with the same job name (file) is already running in this

>     directory or the file.lock file has not been deleted from an abnormally
>     terminated ANSYS run.  To disable this check, set the ANSYS_LOCK environment
>     variable to OFF.

Author: ```suggestion
    directory or the file.lock file has not been deleted from an abnormally
    terminated Ansys run.  To disable this check, set the ANSYS_LOCK environment
    variable to OFF.
```

While this approach has the disadvantage of using the potentially slower shared memory parallel mode, you'll at least be able to run MAPDL.  For more details on shared vs distributed memory, see `High-Performance Computing for Mechanical Simulations using ANSYS <https://www.ansys.com/-/media/Ansys/corporate/resourcelibrary/presentation/hpc-for-mechanical-ansys.pdf>`_.

In addition, if your device is inside a virtual private network (VPN), ANSYS might have some problems to correctly
resolve the IP of the license server. Please do check that the hostname or IP of the license server
is correct.

> In Windows, you can find the license configuration file which points to the license server in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Windows, you can find the license configuration file that points to the license server in:
```

    sudo bash -c "tar c postinst postrm md5sums control | gzip -c > control.tar.gz"
    sudo ar rcs libxp6_1.0.2-2_amd64_mod.deb debian-binary control.tar.gz data.tar.xz
    sudo dpkg -i ./libxp6_1.0.2-2_amd64_mod.deb

Conflicts with Student Version
------------------------------

> Although you can install Ansys together with any other Ansys products or versions, on Windows it is **highly**
> recommended to not install an ANSYS Product Student version together with its non-student version.
> For example, *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2* and *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 Student version* installed together might cause
> some license conflicts due to overwriting of the environment variables.
> Having different versions, for example *Ansys MAPDL 2021R1* and *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 Student version* is
> completely fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you can install Ansys together with other Ansys products or versions, on Windows, you should
not install a student version of an Ansys product together with its non-student version. For example,
installing both the Ansys MAPDL 202 2R2 Student Version and Ansys MAPDL 2022 R2 might cause
license conflicts due to overwriting of environment variables.
Having different versions, for example *Ansys MAPDL 2021R1* and *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2 Student version* is
completely fine.
```

> If you experience those issues, we recommend you to edit the environment variables ``ANSYSXXX_DIR``, ``AWP_ROOTXXX``,
> and ``CADOE_LIBDIRXXX`` where ``XXX`` is the MAPDL numeric version (i.e. ``222`` for *Ansys MAPDL 2022R2*)
> to remove any reference to the student version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you experience issues, you should edit these environment variables to remove any
reference to the student version: ``ANSYSXXX_DIR``, ``AWP_ROOTXXX``, and
``CADOE_LIBDIRXXX``. The three-digit MAPDL version appears where ``XXX`` is
shown. For Ansys MAPDL 2022 R2, ``222`` appears where ``XXX`` is shown.
```
